---
layout: default
---
{% include links %}

# Locating Javascript implementation of Selenese commands
Do not search for implementation functions of Selenese action [commands][command] case-sensitively. Actions (i.e. ones with primary forms that don't start with **`get`** neither with **`is`** and that are not like <code><strong>is</strong>Xyz<strong>Present</strong></code> - as per table at {{navAutoGeneratedSeleneseCommands}}) are defined in Javascript functions whose names start with **`do`**. E.g. command `xyz` is implemented in function <code><strong>do</strong>Xyz</code>.

# Locating a Javascript function in sources #
There are various ways of how to define/set/override a function in Javascript (usually through setting it as if it were a field on the class prototype object). So if you need to debug/modify/extend a function, it may not be easy to locate. You can use the following regular expressions to find definition(s) of a function (if implemented in one of the common ways). Replace `FUNCTION` with the name of the function.

The regex itself, e.g. for use in NetBeans:

```
function\s+FUNCTIONNAME[^a-zA-Z0-9_]|[^a-zA-Z0-9_]FUNCTIONNAME\s*[:=]\s*function|\[\s*['"]FUNCTIONNAME['"]\s*\]\s*=\s*function
```

The same regex escaped for use in bash:

```
egrep -r "function\s+FUNCTIONNAME[^a-zA-Z0-9_]|[^a-zA-Z0-9_]FUNCTIONNAME\s*[:=]\s*function|\[\s*['\"]FUNCTIONNAME['\"]\s*\]\s*=\s*function" *
```

This is especially useful with Selenium which uses same name functions in various classes/components. There may be various versions of the same class/component, depending on how the code is executed - via Selenium IDE or via webdriver (but only Selenium Core and IDE is relevant to SeLite).

# Defining functions in Selenium Core #
This is for files normally loaded into [Core scope] (via [BootstrapLoader](BootstrapLoader) or [ExtensionSequencer](ExtensionSequencer), which use [JavascriptComplex](JavascriptComplex) > [mozIJSSubScriptLoader](JavascriptComplex#mozIJSSubScriptLoader)). (That's not for {{navJavascriptCodeModules}}.)

You can define functions for [Core scope] in either way mentioned at [JavascriptEssential](JavascriptEssential) > [Defining Javascript functions](JavascriptEssential#defining-javascript-functions). However, if you use [the classic way](JavascriptEssential#the-classic-way), do that only in `strict` mode. Otherwise the function will be in the Selenium global scope (i.e. outside of [Core scope]) - then you need to see {{navCoreExtensionsLoadedTwice}}.

# Special rules for custom Selenese commands #

## Names of action commands ##
Primary Selenese action commands are implemented by Javascript functions whose names start with **`do`**. (E.g. action `abcDef` is implemented by function <code><strong>do</strong>AbcDef</code>.) Don't have primary Selenese action names themselves in form <code><strong>get</strong>Xyz, <strong>is</strong>Xyz</code> or <code><strong>is</strong>Xyz<strong>Present</strong></code>  (i.e. implemented by functions <code><strong>doGet</strong>Xyz, <strong>doIs</strong>Xyz</code> or <code><strong>doIs</strong>Xyz<strong>Present</strong></code>, respectively), unless you have a very good reason. Such names would imply that the command is a _getter_ or _checker_ rather than an _action_. They would suggest that there are other auto-generated Selenese commands for them (<code><strong>assert</strong>Xyz</code> etc., as per {{navAutoGeneratedSeleneseCommands}}), but those wouldn't exist.

## Getter commands ##
Don't define the second parameter (usually called `value`) for Selenese _getter_ commands. See [Documentation and handling of Selenium.prototype.getXYZ functions - Se IDE](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/1635).